
AMRITSAR GROUP OF COLLEGES
Academic Year – 2025-26
Admission Procedure
Drafted By
Proposed By
Approved By
------------------------------

AMRITSAR GROUP OF COLLEGES
Department of Campus Connect & International Education
INDEX

| Sr. No. | Description | Page No. |
|---|---|---|
| 1 | Procedure to Fill Seats of Management Quota within Punjab State (UG Courses) | 1 |
| 2 | Procedure to Fill Seats of Management Quota within Punjab State (PG Courses) | 2 |
| 3 | Procedure to Fill Seats of Management Quota from Other States (UG Courses) | 3 |
| 4 | Procedure to Fill Seats of Management Quota from Other States (PG Courses) | 4 |
| 5 | Procedure to Fill Seats of Management Quota within Punjab State (Lateral Entry Courses) | 5 |
| 6 | Procedure to Fill Seats of Management Quota from Other States (Lateral Entry Courses) | 6 |
| 7 | Procedure to Fill Seats of B. Vocational Courses | 7 |
| 8 | Regulations for Upgradation of Branches | 8 |
| 9 | Regulations Regarding Migration | 9 |

------------------------------

Procedure to Fill Management Quota Seats within State, Punjab
The following procedure is being followed for the admission in UG Courses within College/Institute:

   1. 1/3 of the total intake belongs to management quota, rest 2/3 of the total intake is filled through IKGPTU online Counseling.
   2. Advertisements for admission to UCG Courses are both published in the leading regional newspapers (Punjabi, Hindi and English) as well as notified on the college website www.agcamritsar.in
   3. Interested Students then submit their forms for admission and the data is uploaded in college CRM (Online Portal),
   4. Interested students register themselves for AGC NEST (National Entrance Scholarship Test) with Rs. 500 (Excluded of college prospectus).
   5. After clearing the Entrance test, the student is eligible for admission along with the scholarship.
   6. Notification regarding the counseling schedule is published on the basis of JEE , 12th marks and AGC NEST ranks by the Department of CCIE.
   7. A student is required to submit his/her fee with documents within 15 days from the declaration of results of the entrance exam and Scholarship amount of AGC NEST.
   8. Student has to submit his/her fee through any mode (i.e. Cash, Cheque, Demand Draft or through UPI).
   9. After submission of fee and documents the student is admitted provisionally.
   10. Department of CCIE schedules 3 to 4 counseling to fill the seats.

------------------------------

Procedure to Fill Management Quota Seats within State, Punjab
The following procedure is being followed for the admission in PG Courses within College/Institute:

   1. 1/3 of the total intakes belongs to management quota; rest 2/3 of the total intake is filled through IKGPTU online Counseling.
   2. Advertisements for admission to PG Courses are both published in the leading regional newspapers (Punjabi, Hindi and English) as well as notified on the college website www.agcamritsar.in
   3. Interested Students then submit their forms for admission and the data is uploaded in College CRM (Online Portal).
   4. Interested students register themselves for AGC NEST (National Entrance Scholarship Test) with Rs. 500 (Excluded of college prospectus).
   5. Notification regarding the counseling schedule is published on the basis of Graduation marks by the Department of CCIE
   6. A student is required to submit his/her fee with documents within 15 days after the registration of AGC NEST.
   7. Student has to submit his/her fee through any mode (i.e. Cash, Cheque, Demand Draft or through UPI).
   8. After submission of fee and documents the student is admitted provisionally.
   9. Department of CCIE schedules 3 to 4 counseling to fill the seats.

------------------------------

Procedure to Fill Management Quota Seats From Other States
The following procedure is being followed for the admission in UG Courses within College Institute:

   1. 1/3 of the total intake belongs to management quota; rest 2/3 of the total intake filled through IKGPTU online Counseling.
   2. Advertisements for admission to UG Courses are both published in the leading regional newspapers as well as notified on the college website www.agcamritsar.in
   3. Interested Student's then submit their form for admission and the data is uploaded in College CRM (Online Portal).
   4. Interested students register themselves for AGN EST (National Entrance Scholarship Test Rs 500 (Excluded of college prospectus).
   5. After clearing the Entrance test, the student is eligible for admission along with the scholarship.
   6. Notification regarding the counseling schedule is published on the basis of 10 marks and AGC NEST ranks by the Department of CCIE.
   7. A student is required to submit his/her fee with documents within 15 days from the declaration of results of the entrance Exam.
   8. Student has to submit his/her fee through any mode (i.e. Cash, Cheque, Demand Draft or through UPI).
   9. After submission of fee and documents the student is admitted provisionally.
   10. Department of CCIE schedules 3 to 4 counseling to fill the seats

------------------------------

Procedure to Fill Management Quota Seats From Other States
The following procedure is being followed for the admission in PG Courses within College/Institute:

   1. 1/3 of the total intake belongs to management quota; rest 2/3 of the total intake is filled through IKGPTU online Counseling.
   2. Advertisements for admission to PG courses are both published in the leading regional newspapers as well as notified on the college website www.agcamritsar.in
   3. Interested Students then submit their forms for admission and the data is uploaded in College CRM (Online Portal).
   4. Interested students register themselves for AGC NEST (National Entrance Scholarship Test) with Rs. 500 (Excluded of college prospectus).
   5. Notification regarding the counseling schedule is published on the basis of graduation marks by the Department of CCIE.
   6. A student is required to submit his/her fee with documents within 15 days after the registration of AGC NEST.
   7. Student has to submit his/her fee through any mode (i.e. Cash, Cheque, Demand Draft or through UPI).
   8. Atter submission of fee and documents the student is admitted provisionally.
   9. Department of CCIE schedules 3 to 4 counseling to fill the seats

------------------------------

Procedure to Fill Management Quota Seats Within State, Punjab
The following procedure is being followed for the Lateral Entry Seats within College/Institute:

   1. 1/3 of the total intake belongs to management quota, rest 2/3rd of the total intake are filled through IKGPTU online Counseling.
   2. Advertisements for admission to Lateral Entry are both published in the leading regional newspapers (Punjabi. Hindi, and English) as well as notified on the college website www.agcamritsar.in.
   3. Interested Students then submit their forms for admission and the data uploaded in College CRM (Online Portal).
   4. After form submission interested students have to register themselves online with Rs. 500 (Excluded of college prospectus)
   5. After successful registration, the student is eligible for admission.
   6. Notification regarding the counseling schedule on the basis of diploma marks is made by the Department of CCIE.
   7. Prospective student is required to submit his/her fee along with the documents within 15 days from the date of counseling.
   8. Student has to submit his/her fee through any mode (i.e. Cash, Cheque. Demand Draft or through UPI).
   9. After submission of fee and documents the student is admitted provisionally.
   10. Department of CCIE schedules 3 to 4 counseling to fill the seats.

------------------------------

Procedure to Fill Management Quota Seats From Other States
The following procedure is being followed for the Lateral Entry Seats within College/Institute:

   1. 1/3 of the total intake belongs to management quota, rest 2/3rd of the total intake are filled through IKGPTU online Counseling.
   2. Advertisements for admission to Lateral Entry Programs are both published in the leading regional newspapers as well as notified on the college website www.agcamritsar.in.
   3. Interested Students then submit their forms for admission and the data uploaded in College CRM (Online Portal).
   4. After form submission interested students have to register themselves online with Rs. 500 (Excluded of college prospectus).
   5. After successful registration, the student is eligible for admission.
   6. Notification regarding the counseling schedule on the basis of diploma marks is made by the Department of CCIE.
   7. Prospective student is required to submit his/her fee along with the documents within 15 days from the date of counseling.
   8. Student has to submit his/her fee through any mode (i.e. Cash, Cheque, Demand Draft or through UPI).
   9. After submission of fee and documents the student is admitted provisionally.
   10. Department of CCIE schedules 3 to 4 counseling to fill the seats.

------------------------------

Procedure to Fill B.Vocational Seats
The following procedure shall be followed for the branches of B. Vocational within College/Institute

   1. Advertisements on admission to Vocational programs are published in the leading regional newspapers in Punjabi, Hindi, and English and notified on the college website www.agcamritsar.in.
   2. Interested Students submitted their forms for admission and the data uploaded into College CRM.
   3. Interested students register himself/herself online with the Rs. 500.
   4. A student is required to submit his/her fee with documents within 15 days from the date of AGC NEST Registration.
   5. Student can submit his/her fee by any mode (i.e. Cash, Cheque, Demand Draft or through UPI).
   6. After submission of fee and documents the provisional admission of the student is confirmed.

------------------------------

Regulations For Upgradation of Branches
The following procedure is being followed for upgradation of the branches of Engineering, PG & UG Courses within the College/ Institute:

* The upgradation process is carried out prior to commencement of the 3rd semester on the basis of 1st and 2nd semester results.
* Only those students who have cleared all the subjects of 1st and 2nd semester in B.Tech can participate in the upgradation process.
* The Dean CCIE invites the applications from eligible students specifying the last date of submission. The date and time of upgradation is also notified and displayed on the college notice boards.
* The last date of submitting applications for the change of branch has to be at least two days before the date of upgradation.
* A merit list of all the applicants is then prepared based upon the results of 1 and 2 semester and displayed on the notice board of the College as soon as the result is declared.
* Branch Upgradation takes place only after an official notification is issued by the University.
* Branch wise availability of seats is notified and displayed on the notice board of the college.
* On the date of upgradation, the applicants are called in the order of merit.
* If a student is not present at the time of upgradation, he/she will lose his/her chance for upgradation and shall have no claim to the seats converted.
* After the above process has been completed, upgradation on record signed by the Principal/Director of the College must be notified on the notice boards of the college.
* A copy of this upgradation shall be sent to the University for Approval and record on the next working day.

Note:

   1. Upgradation of branch shall have precedence over Intra University and Inter University migration.
   2. Upgradation will be done only on the basis of availability of seat in particular course.

------------------------------

Regulations Regarding Migration

   1. Migration to a College from another College within the University will be allowed only after the completion of the 1st year and is applicable only to those students who are eligible to register for 3rd semester.
   2. Migration shall be allowed after completion of the second semester but before start of the 3rd semester.
   3. The candidates shall not be allowed to change his/her discipline of study in the process of migration.
   4. Order of preference for Migration:
   a. Branch upgradation, if applicable, shall be carried out at the college level on the basis of the result of 1st semesters & 2nd semester.
   b. Thereafter the making of merit takes place on the basis of marks obtained in the first and second semesters (combined), shall form the basis of migration.
   c. Preference will be given to the students who have cleared all their subjects of the first year.
   5. Procedure for Intra University Migration:
   a. The Institute where the student is studying and the Institute, to which migration is sought, should issue a no objection certificate to the applicant.
   b. The student seeking migration must submit an application written and signed. by him/her together with the "No Objection Certificate" issued by both the colleges.
   c. The University will authorize migration only against a vacant seat available in the discipline in which migration is sought.
   d. In addition to the above, migration will be governed by the rules of the concerned College, if applicable.
   6. Migration to an affiliated College/Institute of the University from other recognized universities will be allowed 15 days prior to of the start of the 3rd semester. The following conditions shall be applied:
   a. The candidate should have passed all the courses of the first year of the University from where he/she wants to migrate.
   b. The courses studied by the candidate in first year must be equivalent to the courses offered in this University. Supplementary, if any, should not be of more than two subjects.

------------------------------

The candidate would be required to furnish an undertaking that he/she will attend classes and pass these courses (found deficient)
c. The institute and the University where the student is studying and the Institute, to which migration is sought, have no objection to the migration.
d. There must be a vacant seat available in the discipline in which migration is sought.
e. In addition to the above, migration will be governed by the rules of the concerned University.
Note:

   1. Shifting of branch within the College as per merit under PTU rules shall have precedence over intra-University migration or Inter University,
   2. Intra-University migration shall be given preference over Inter University migration.

------------------------------

Admission Procedure for Amritsar Group of Colleges (AGC)
The admission procedure for Amritsar Group of Colleges (AGC) is typically a multi-step process that combines merit in qualifying exams, national-level entrance test scores, and/or the colleges own scholarship-based entrance exam.
Here is a detailed, step-by-step breakdown of the general admission procedure:
AGC Admission Procedure Steps
Step 1: Check Eligibility & Entrance Exam Requirements
Before applying, a candidate must confirm they meet the eligibility criteria for their desired course (UG or PG). This usually involves:
Qualifying Exam: Minimum marks (e.g., 50%) in the last qualifying examination (10+2 for UG, Graduation for PG).Subject Combination: Specific subjects required (e.g, Physics, Chemistry, Math's for B. Tech).
Entrance Exam: Identify the required entrance exam for the specific course:
B. Tech: JEE Main, CUET, or AGC NEST.
MBA: CMAT, or AGC NEST.
UG Courses: AGC NEST.
Note: For some courses like B. Voc, D. Pharmacy, PG Courses and lateral entry (LEET) programs, admission is often based solely on qualifying exam marks, and no separate entrance exam is required, though online registration is mandatory.
Step 2: Application/Registration
The application process is primarily conducted online through the official AGC website.
Online Registration: Candidates must visit the official AGC admissions portal to register.
Fill Application Form: Complete the application form with personal details, academic information, and the choice of program.
Entrance Exam Specifics: If the admission is through the college's exam, candidates must:
Register for AGC NEST: Pay the required application/registration fee (typically around Rs.500/-).

------------------------------

Select Test Slot: Choose a convenient date and time for the online AGC NEST examination.
Step 3: Appear for Entrance Exam (If Applicable)
AGC NEST: If applying through the college's National Entrance Scholarship Test (AGC NEST), the candidate takes a short (e.g., 45-minute) online MCQ test. The scholarship is typically declared immediately and is used for selection and scholarship purposes.
National/State Exams: If applying through JEE Main, CMAT, or CUET, the candidate must possess a valid scorecard and meet the college's cut-off marks.
Step 4: Counselling and Document Verification
Shortlisted candidates are called for a counselling session, which may be conducted online (via video conferencing) or offline.
Counselling: The candidate participates in the counselling process, which determines the final selection and seat allocation based on merit (entrance exam score/qualifying exam marks).
Document Submission & Verification: The candidate must submit and present original copies of all required documents for verification:
Class 10th and 12th Mark Sheets and Certificates
Graduation Mark Sheets and Certificate (for PG courses)
Entrance Exam Scorecard (JEE/CMAT/CUET/AGC NEST)
Transfer/Migration Certificate
Character Certificate Aadhaar Card/ID Proof
Caste Certificate, Income Certificate (if applicable)
Step 5: Seat Confirmation and Fee Payment
Admission Letter: Once the documents are verified and the seat is allocated, the candidate receives a provisional admission letter.
Fee Payment: The candidate must pay the necessary first-semester/annual course fees to confirm and secure their allotted seat. This completes the admission procedure.



