 Applications for admission with maximum Scholarship benefit. Apply Now! Limited Seats
agc images






Get in Touch!
Register Here
Your Name
Your Email
Phone Number
Course
State
alumni
Alumni
12,132+

Stairs to the elevators of success

students
Students
5478+

Expanding knowledge with global standards of learning

visitors
Visitors
130+

Assuring their trust by stepping forward

events
Events
964+

providing a platform to growth and development

Amritsar Group of Colleges
Amritsar Group of Colleges’ (AGC) world-class environment and superior education system extends a warm welcome to the national and international students who seek quality education in India to acquire a lucid career. The college is enlisted among the Best Engineering Colleges of North India. It is accredited with Grade ‘A’ accreditation by the National Board of Accreditation (NBA) and the National Assessment & Accreditation Council (NAAC). Additionally, the college has earned various ranks not only in Punjab but in North India, forging it one of the Best Engineering Colleges in Punjab. The AGC’s Amritsar College of Engineering & Technology (ACET) is affiliated to Inder Kumar Gujral Punjab Technical University (IKG PTU), Kapurthala (for engineering and management courses) whereas the Amritsar Pharmacy College (APC) is affiliated to IKGPTU and PSBTE & IT (for pharmacy courses). And, for the lately introduced courses under law field i.e. BA LLB and LLB, the institute is affiliated to Guru Nanak Dev University (GNDU), Amritsar.

courses
AGC Nest, Avail Scholarship Upto 1.5 LACS
Top courses
All11 Engineering Law Other
Courses
B.tech
Courses
M.tech
Courses
Management Studies
Courses
Computer Application
Courses
Hotel Management
Courses
Pharmacy
Courses
Applied Sciences
Courses
Fashion Design
LLB
LLB
BALLB
BALLB
Top Recruiters
placement-company
agc-nest
AGC NEST- providing endless opportunities to the students
Amritsar Group of Colleges (AGC) has launched the 2026 intake for all the courses to the eligible candidates, in a press conference. The aspirants seeking admission for the session 2026 at Amritsar Group of Colleges have to apply online. "By applying for the AGC NEST, aspirants can get a scholarship up to Rs. 1.5 Lac.

Logo
Set a benchmark with AGC ensuring the continuity in learning with best career opportunities.

Useful Links
Home
Scholarship
Contact Us
Dashboard
Blog
Location

Contact Us
12 Km Stone, Amritsar- Jalandhar, G.T Road, Amritsar-143001(PB), India
+91 8872009951 (24/7 Support Line)
+91 8872009950 (24/7 Support Line)
admission@acetedu.in
Designed & Developed by DigitalCell Agc

© Copyright 2022 AGC Amritsar rights reserved.


